docs/integrations/orchestration/dbt_cloud/configuration.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Configuration
description: Setting up integration of Datafold with dbt Cloud
---
### Connecting dbt Cloud

* To set up dbt Cloud begin by navigating to **Admin** -> **Settings** -> **Orchestration**. Here you will click on **Add New Integration** to enter your dbt Cloud details. 

![](../../../../static/img/dbt_cloud_setup.png)

### Configure dbt Cloud on Datafold
To complete the setup you'll connect your dbt Cloud account with an API key and specify settings for your dbt runs.

Complete the configuration by specifying the following fields:

| Field Name      | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Repository | Select the repository that generates the webhooks and where pull / merge requests will be raised. |
| Data Source | Select the data source where the code that is changed in the repository will run.|
| Name | An identifier used in Datafold to identify this CI configuration. |
| API Key | This is the token created [above](/docs/integrations/orchestration/dbt_cloud/prerequisites.md). |
| Account name  | This becomes selectable when a valid API key is filled in. After that, select your account to use. |
| Job that creates dbt artifacts | This becomes selectable after a valid API key is filled in. We recommend creating a dedicated job that executes `dbt compile` frequently (e.g., hourly) so that Datafold receives the latest artifacts from the master/main branch. |
| Skip for pull/merge requests | When selected, the Datafold CI pipeline won't be run on pull/merge requests. |
| Job that builds pull requests  | This becomes selectable after a valid API key is filled in. Select the job that builds pull requests. |
| Primary key tag | See [dbt Integration](../dbt_adv_config.md). This should be set to a value such as `primary-key` which will also be used in your dbt project configuration (yaml files and config blocks). |
| Sync metadata on every push to production | When selected, this will sync the manifest.json artifact from the dbt run with Datafold every time a push happens on the default branch.|
| Sync metadata on a schedule | Set a schedule to synchronize the dbt metadata (columns and table descriptions, tags, owners, etc), use this when you run the production job on a schedule. |
| Files to ignore | If defined, the files matching the pattern will be ignored in the PRs. The pattern uses the syntax of `.gitignore`. Excluded files can be re-included by using the negation; re-included files can be later re-excluded again to narrow down the filter. For example, to exclude everything except the `/dbt` folder, but not the dbt `.md` files, do:`*!dbt/*dbt/*.md`.|
| CI Status Reporting | If the checkbox is disabled, the errors in the CI runs will be reported back to GitHub/GitLab as successes, to keep the check "green" and not block the PR/MR. By default (enabled), the errors are reported as failures and may prevent PR/MRs from being merged. |
| Slim Diff | If this box is checked, data diffs will be run only for models changed in a pull request. You'll be able to automatically diff downstream models within your PR.  Data app downstream model diffs override this option. |
| Require 'datafold' label to be present on pull request | When this is selected, the Datafold CI process will only run when the 'datafold' label has been applied. This label needs to be created manually in GitHub or GitLab, and the title or name must match 'datafold' exactly. |
| Sampling tolerance | The tolerance to apply in sampling for all data diffs. |
| Sampling confidence | The confidence to apply when sampling. |
| Sampling Threshold | Sampling will be disabled automatically if tables are smaller than specified threshold. If unspecified, default values will be used depending on the Data Source type. |

Click save. Now that you've set up the integration, Datafold will diff your impacted tables whenever you push commits to a PR. A summary of the diff will appear in GitHub, and detailed results will appear in the Datafold app.

Commit message:

Reword slim diff and hightouch interaction

docs/integrations/orchestration/dbt_cloud/configuration.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Configuration
description: Setting up integration of Datafold with dbt Cloud
---
### Connecting dbt Cloud

* To set up dbt Cloud begin by navigating to **Admin** -> **Settings** -> **Orchestration**. Here you will click on **Add New Integration** to enter your dbt Cloud details. 

![](../../../../static/img/dbt_cloud_setup.png)

### Configure dbt Cloud on Datafold
To complete the setup you'll connect your dbt Cloud account with an API key and specify settings for your dbt runs.

Complete the configuration by specifying the following fields:

| Field Name      | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Repository | Select the repository that generates the webhooks and where pull / merge requests will be raised. |
| Data Source | Select the data source where the code that is changed in the repository will run.|
| Name | An identifier used in Datafold to identify this CI configuration. |
| API Key | This is the token created [above](/docs/integrations/orchestration/dbt_cloud/prerequisites.md). |
| Account name  | This becomes selectable when a valid API key is filled in. After that, select your account to use. |
| Job that creates dbt artifacts | This becomes selectable after a valid API key is filled in. We recommend creating a dedicated job that executes `dbt compile` frequently (e.g., hourly) so that Datafold receives the latest artifacts from the master/main branch. |
| Skip for pull/merge requests | When selected, the Datafold CI pipeline won't be run on pull/merge requests. |
| Job that builds pull requests  | This becomes selectable after a valid API key is filled in. Select the job that builds pull requests. |
| Primary key tag | See [dbt Integration](../dbt_adv_config.md). This should be set to a value such as `primary-key` which will also be used in your dbt project configuration (yaml files and config blocks). |
| Sync metadata on every push to production | When selected, this will sync the manifest.json artifact from the dbt run with Datafold every time a push happens on the default branch.|
| Sync metadata on a schedule | Set a schedule to synchronize the dbt metadata (columns and table descriptions, tags, owners, etc), use this when you run the production job on a schedule. |
| Files to ignore | If defined, the files matching the pattern will be ignored in the PRs. The pattern uses the syntax of `.gitignore`. Excluded files can be re-included by using the negation; re-included files can be later re-excluded again to narrow down the filter. For example, to exclude everything except the `/dbt` folder, but not the dbt `.md` files, do:`*!dbt/*dbt/*.md`.|
| CI Status Reporting | If the checkbox is disabled, the errors in the CI runs will be reported back to GitHub/GitLab as successes, to keep the check "green" and not block the PR/MR. By default (enabled), the errors are reported as failures and may prevent PR/MRs from being merged. |
| Slim Diff | If this box is checked, data diffs will be run only for models changed in a pull request. You'll be able to automatically diff downstream models within your PR. Downstream Hightouch models will be diffed even with Slim Diff turned on. |
| Require 'datafold' label to be present on pull request | When this is selected, the Datafold CI process will only run when the 'datafold' label has been applied. This label needs to be created manually in GitHub or GitLab, and the title or name must match 'datafold' exactly. |
| Sampling tolerance | The tolerance to apply in sampling for all data diffs. |
| Sampling confidence | The confidence to apply when sampling. |
| Sampling Threshold | Sampling will be disabled automatically if tables are smaller than specified threshold. If unspecified, default values will be used depending on the Data Source type. |

Click save. Now that you've set up the integration, Datafold will diff your impacted tables whenever you push commits to a PR. A summary of the diff will appear in GitHub, and detailed results will appear in the Datafold app.
